docs: add Forward Auth plugin blog (#860)
iresty/iresty.github.io: website/blog/2022/01/26/apisix-integrate-forward-auth-plugin.md

---

> title: "Furward-auth, Another Choice for Authentication Function"

Reviewer: Forward

## Principle

![Plugin priciple](https://static.apiseven.com/202108/1643096414141-ccbc33c0-7899-445a-a2f8-b6d5341c44df.jpg)

The principle and flow of the `forward-auth plugin` in Apache APISIX is shown in the figure above and is summarized in the following steps.

- Step 1: A request is made by the client to APISIX
- Step 2: APISIX makes a request to the user-configured authentication service
- Step 3: The authentication service responds (2xx or exception status)
- Step 4: Based on the authentication service response, APISIX will decide to forward the request upstream or send a rejection response directly to the client

## How to use

### Step 1: Set up the authentication service

Suppose there is an authentication service to which the user sends a request with an Authorization request header. If this data passes authentication, a 200 status code and a response header named `X-User-ID` are returned; if it does not pass authentication, the authentication status is considered expired and a 302 status code and `Location` response header are returned to redirect the client to the login page.

### Step 2: Create a route and enable the `forward-auth` plugin

> Next, we will configure a route and enable the `forward-auth` plug-in to interface the above authentication service with the upstream application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we will configure a route and enable the `forward-auth` plugin to interface the above authentication service with the upstream application.
```

- If the authentication passes, the status code is 200 and returns an `X-User-ID` as defined in `upstream_headers` (i.e. the request header to be forwarded upstream by the authentication service when the authentication passes, if not set, no request header is forwarded).
- If authentication fails, the status code is 302 and returns a `Location` as defined in `client_headers` (i.e., the response header sent by the authentication service to the client if authentication fails, or no response header if it is not set).

### Step 3: Test Requests

```shell
# Request and send data using POST
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/user \
    --header 'Authorization: true'

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 28
Server: APISIX/2.11.0

{"user_id":"i-am-real-user"}

# Request using GET
curl -i http://127.0.0.1:9080/user \
    --header 'Authorization: false'

HTTP/1.1 302 FOUND
Server: APISIX/2.11.0
Location: https://example.com/auth
```

### Addendum: Disable the plugin

> If you have finished using the Forward Auth plug-in, simply remove the `forward-auth` plug-in configuration from the route configuration and save it to turn off the Forward Auth plug-in on the route.
> 
> Thanks to the dynamic nature of Apache APISIX, there is no need to restart Apache APISIX to turn the plug-in on and off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have finished using the Forward Auth plugin, simply remove the `forward-auth` plugin configuration from the route configuration and save it to turn off the Forward Auth plugin on the route.

Thanks to the dynamic nature of Apache APISIX, there is no need to restart Apache APISIX to turn the plugin on and off.
```
